V3 (#119)
deity-io/falcon-platform-docs: docs/platform/server-v3/modules/about.md

- [WordPress module (blog)](../../integration/wordpress)
- [Algolia search module (search)](../../integration/algolia)

## What is a module in Falcon

> Falcon Module is a package that contains implementations of all the pieces required to achieve particular thing. Falcon Module needs to exports their content via named export, default export will be ignored. Falcon Server expects only known Module extension classes, anything else, which is outside of the predefined list will be ignored:

Author: done

> A module is a package that contains implementations of all the pieces required to achieve a particular thing. Each module needs to export its content via named exports, default exports will be ignored. Our middleware (Falcon Server) expects only known module extension classes (common services), anything else, which is outside of the predefined list will be ignored:

Reviewer: Not clear what is the `predefined list` here, mb we can add it later with some examples
```suggestion
A module is a package that contains implementations of all the pieces required to achieve a particular thing. Each module needs to export its content via named exports, default exports will be ignored. Our middleware (Falcon Server) expects only known module extension classes (common services), everything else will be ignored:
```

Author: done

> - [Data Source](./common-services/data-sources) - Used by GraphQL resolvers to fetch the data from various services. By default, Falcon Module can contain only one implementation of it due to auto-discovery. However, by using our Dependency Injection framework, you can define more of them, please read more about that in [Falcon Module and Dependency Injection](#falcon_module_and_dependency_injection) section.

Author: done

> - [Data Source](./common-services/data-sources) - Used by GraphQL resolvers to fetch the data from various services. By default, A module can contain only one DataSource (due to GraphQL resolvers auto-binding). However, by using our dependency injection framework, you can define more of them, please read more about DI in our [Falcon Module and Dependency Injection](#falcon_module_and_dependency_injection) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Data Source](./common-services/data-sources) - Used by GraphQL resolvers to fetch the data from various services. By default, A module can contain only one DataSource (due to GraphQL resolvers auto-binding). However, by using our dependency injection (DI) framework, you can define more of them, please read more about DI in our [Falcon Module and Dependency Injection](#falcon_module_and_dependency_injection) section.
```

Author: done

> - [Rest Endpoint Handler](./common-services/rest-endpoints) - REST webhook handler allows you to execute any action for incoming HTTP request. Module can contain any number of it.

Author: done

> - [Event Handler](./common-services/event-handlers) - Handler for in-proc emitted events. Module can contain any number of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Event Handler](./common-services/event-handlers) - Handler for in-proc emitted events. Module can contain any number of these.
```

Reviewer 2: `for in-proc emitted` - perhaps we can explain these. I know they are events that our middleware can use. But I've never heard the expression "in-proc". Is that a common term?

> However, Falcon Module allows you to compose code according to [Inversion of Control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inversion_of_control) principle, which is helpful with large code base, and makes unit-testing easier. We highly recommending this approach. The Falcon Module needs to export following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, Falcon Module allows you to compose code according to [Inversion of Control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inversion_of_control) principle, which is helpful with a large code base, and makes unit-testing easier. We highly recommending this approach. A module needs to export following:
```

Author: done

> - [Falcon Module](./module-api) - Structured representation of module definition. Falcon Module can contain only one implementation of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Falcon Module](./module-api) - This should be a structured representation of module definition. Only one can exist per module.
```

Author: done

### Old vs new approach

> In previous version of Falcon Server (version 2) there was a distinct separation between extensions, api clients, rest endpoint handlers and event handlers. Each of these needed to be implemented and loaded as a separate package. Falcon Server 3 changes that approach and introduces concept of a module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In previous versions of Falcon Server (version 2) there was a distinct separation between extensions, api clients, rest endpoint handlers and event handlers. Each of these needed to be implemented and loaded as a separate package. Falcon Server 3 changes that approach and introduces the concept of a module.
```

Author: done

> So in comparison to Falcon Server 2, Falcon Module it's a container that groups all the above things as one package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So in comparison to version 2,  version 3 modules are a container that groups all the above things into one package.
```

Author: done

In Falcon Server 2 it was necessary to add multiple packages to have full coverage of features. If we consider shop features that will be handled service X (Magento, BigCommerce, CommerceTools etc) the following packages ere required:

- `@deity/falcon-shop-extension` that provides GraphQL schema for shop features
- `@deity/falcon-X-api` that provides resolvers and all the calls to service X (implements the shop features)
- `@deity/falcon-X-endpoints` that provides REST handlers (e.g. webhooks, or callbacks for payments)
- `@deity/falcon-X-event-handlers` that provides handlers for events in Falcon Server (if such are required)

In Falcon Server you need only:

> - `@deity/falcon-X-extension` that provides GraphQL schema for shop features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `@deity/falcon-X-extension` that provides GraphQL schema for a specified feature e.g. shop or blog
```

Author: done

- `@deity/falcon-X-module` that provides implementation of all the required things in one package

## Module and extension relation

> Please keep in mind that extension packages are still needed, as extension provide GraphQL schema that will be exposed to GraphQL clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please keep in mind that extension packages are still needed, as extensions provide GraphQL schema that will be exposed to GraphQL clients.
```

Author: done

So now, the 2 things need to be provided:

- extension which is an "interface" for a particular feature
- module which is an "implementation" of that feature

> ## Configuring module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configuring a module
```

Author: done

> Please keep in mind that extension packages are still needed, as extensions provide GraphQL schema that will be exposed to GraphQL clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please keep in mind that extension packages are required because they provide GraphQL schema that will be exposed towards GraphQL clients.
```

Author: done

> In order to enable a module in Falcon Server you need to add its configuration into `config.json` file under `"modules"` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to enable a module in Falcon Server you need to add its configuration into a config `.json` (normally `server/config/default.json`) file under `"modules"` section.
```

Author: done

```json
{
  "modules": {
    "my-module": {
      "package": "<path>"
    }
  }
}
```

> As you an see, Falcon Server expect a key-value map of modules, in most cases order does not matter, but there are exertion, e.g. search modules should be configured last.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see, Falcon Server expect a key-value map of modules, in most cases, the order does not matter. There are some exceptions to this e.g. search modules should be configured last.
```

Reviewer 2: We should explain why the order can matter here @tutok

Author: added suggestion, but without additional explanation why.

> We recommend adding it in `config/default.json` file so it will be available no matter what mode (`development`, `production` or any custom) Falcon Server is running. If a module requires some credentials or secrets (sensitive configuration) then that configuration can be added in `config/local.json`. See configuration guide for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend adding your base configuration in `server/config/default.json` file so it will be available no matter what mode (`development`, `production` or any custom) Falcon Server is running in. If a module requires some credentials that should be secret and not committed to your git repository then that configuration can be added in `server/config/local.json` for local development and as environment variables for remote apps . See configuration guide for more details.
```

Author: done

Module configuration can be described in following way:

```ts
type ModuleConfiguration = {
  package: string;
  enabled?: boolean;
  config?: Record<string, any>;
};
```

> - `package: string` - path to Module entry point, tells Falcon Server wherefrom the module should be loaded. It can be an `npm` package name (e.g. `@deity/falcon-magento2-module`), which of course needs to be installed, so added to `package.json` file it can be `npm` package name or path relative to the root of your server application to a local module placed inside application folder (e.g. `./src/my-module`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `package: string` - path to Module entry point, tells Falcon Server wherefrom the module should be loaded. It can be an `npm` package name (e.g. `@deity/falcon-magento2-module`), which of course needs to be installed, so added to `package.json` file or path relative to the root of your server application to a local module placed inside application folder (e.g. `./src/my-module`).
```

Author: done

> - `enabled?: boolean` - determines if the module should be loaded, it is optional, the default value is `true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `enabled?: boolean` - determines if the module should be loaded, it is optional, by default value is `true`
```

Author: I think  current version it is ok, eventually it could be "by default it is `true`"

The easiest way to extend Falcon Server with a custom module is to extend the classes provided by Falcon Server and export these from a module. During startup Falcon Server will read everything from within that module and base on the base types of exported things it will register these as proper things in IOC container. Falcon Server accept only [Data Sources](./common-services/data-sources), [Rest Endpoint Handlers](./common-services/rest-endpoints) and [Event Handlers](./common-services/event-handlers), anything else will be ignored. But if your module exports [Falcon Module](./module-api) then only it will be loaded according to [Manual binding for module](#manual-binding-for-module)

See examples of [Data Sources](./common-services/data-sources), [Rest Endpoint Handlers](./common-services/rest-endpoints) and [Event Handlers](./common-services/event-handlers) for the details.

### Manual binding for module

When you need to add a custom behavior to Falcon Server which is more complex or when you need to control lifetime of the instances of your modules you might want to implement the module in a manual way.

> In that case, you need to implement all the classes as usual and then use [Falcon Module](./module-api) to register these classes to be loaded and instantiated in a particular way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case you need to implement all the classes as usual and then use [Falcon Module](./module-api) to register these classes to be loaded and instantiated in a particular way.
```

> [Module auto-discovery](#module-auto-discovery) mechanism will not be executed, so you need to care about every registration by yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Module auto-discovery](#module-auto-discovery) mechanism will not be executed, so you need to take care about every registration yourself.
```

Author: done
